# Precompile-EVM

Precompile-EVM is a repository for registering precompiles to Subnet-EVM without forking the Subnet-EVM codebase. Subnet-EVM supports registering external precompiles through `precompile/modules` package. By importing Subnet-EVM as a library, you can register your own precompiles to Subnet-EVM and build it together with Subnet-EVM.

## How to use

There is an example branch [hello-world-example](https://github.com/ava-labs/precompile-evm/tree/hello-world-example) in this repository. You can check the example branch to see how to register precompiles and test them.

### Clone the Repo

```zsh
git clone https://github.com/ava-labs/precompile-evm.git
cd precompile-evm/ # change directory to the precompile-evm/ directory
```

### Checkout the `hello-world-example` Branch

```zsh
git checkout hello-world-example

branch 'hello-world-example' set up to track 'origin/hello-world-example'.
Switched to a new branch 'hello-world-example'
```

### Install NodeJS Dependencies

First you have to `cd contracts/` and run `npm install` to get the dependencies.

```zsh
cd contracts/ # change directory to the contracts/ directory
npm install
```

### Create a New Contract

Copy the existing `IHelloWorld.sol` interface to a new file called `IHolaMundo.sol`.

```zsh
cd .. # change directory back to the root of the repo
cp contracts/contracts/interfaces/IHelloWorld.sol contracts/contracts/interfaces/IHolaMundo.sol
```

### Install `solc` and Confirm Dependency Version

Install the `solc` dependency.

```zsh
brew install solidity
```

Confirm `solc` is >=0.8.0.

```zsh
solc --version

solc, the solidity compiler commandline interface
Version: 0.8.17+commit.8df45f5f.Darwin.appleclang
```

### Generate an `.abi`

Now generate a `.abi` from a `.sol` using `solc`.

Passing in the following flags

- `--abi`
  - ABI specification of the contracts.
- `--base-path path`
  - Use the given path as the root of the source tree instead of the root of the filesystem.
- `--include-path path`
  - Make an additional source directory available to the default import callback. Use this option if you want to import contracts whose location is not fixed in relation to your main source tree, e.g. third-party libraries installed using a package manager. Can be used multiple times. Can only be used if base path has a non-empty value.
- `--output-dir path`
  - If given, creates one file per output component and contract/file at the specified directory.
- `--overwrite`
  - Overwrite existing files (used together with `--output-dir`).

```zsh
cd contracts/ # change directory to the contracts/ directory
solc --abi contracts/interfaces/IHolaMundo.sol --output-dir abis --base-path . --include-path ./node_modules --overwrite

Compiler run successful. Artifact(s) can be found in directory "abis".
```

### Generate Precompile Files

First, you need to create your precompile contract interface in the `contracts` directory and build the ABI. Then you can generate your precompile files with `./scripts/generate_precompile.sh --abi {abiPath} --out {outPath}`. This script installs the `precompilegen` tool from Subnet-EVM and runs it to generate your precompile.

```zsh
cd .. # change directory back to the root directory of the repo
./scripts/generate_precompile.sh --abi contracts/abis/IHolaMundo.abi --out holamundo/

Using branch: hello-world-example
installing precompilegen from Subnet-EVM v0.5.2
generating precompile with Subnet-EVM v0.5.2
Precompile files generated successfully at:  holamundo/
```

Confirm that the new `holamundo/` directory has the appropriate files.

```zsh
ls -lh helloworld

-rw-r--r--  1 user group 2.3K Jul  5 13:26 README.md
-rw-r--r--  1 user group 2.3K Jul  5 13:26 config.go
-rw-r--r--  1 user group 2.8K Jul  5 13:26 config_test.go
-rw-r--r--  1 user group 963B Jul  5 13:26 contract.abi
-rw-r--r--  1 user group 8.1K Jul  5 13:26 contract.go
-rw-r--r--  1 user group 8.3K Jul  5 13:26 contract_test.go
-rw-r--r--  1 user group 2.7K Jul  5 13:26 module.go
```

### Register Precompile

In `plugin/main.go` Subnet-EVM is already imported and ready to be Run from the main package. All you need to do is explicitly register your precompiles to Subnet-EVM in `plugin/main.go` and build it together with Subnet-EVM. Precompiles generated by `precompilegen` tool have a self-registering mechanism in their `module.go/init()` function. All you need to do is to force-import your precompile packprecompile package in `plugin/main.go`.

### Build

You can build your precompile and Subnet-EVM with `./scripts/build.sh`. This script builds Subnet-EVM, and your precompile together and generates a binary file. The binary file is compatible with AvalancheGo plugins.

### Test

You can create contract tests in `contracts/test` with the Hardhat test framework. These can be run by adding ginkgko test cases in `tests/precompile/solidity/suites.go` and a suitable genesis file in `tests/precompile/genesis`. You can install AvalancheGo binaries with `./scripts/install_avalanchego_release.sh` then run the tests with `./scripts/run_ginkgo.sh`

## Changing Versions

In order to upgrade the Subnet-EVM version, you need to change the version in `go.mod` and `scripts/versions.sh`. You can also change the AvalancheGo version through `scripts/versions.sh` as well. Then you can run `./scripts/build.sh` to build the plugin with the new version.
